docs/cli_commands.md, before:

# QMK CLI Commands

# User Commands

## `qmk compile`

This command allows you to compile firmware from any directory. You can compile JSON exports from <https://config.qmk.fm>, compile keymaps in the repo, or compile the keyboard in the current working directory.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage for Configurator Exports**:

```
qmk compile [-c] <configuratorExport.json>
```

**Usage for Keymaps**:

```
qmk compile [-c] [-e <var>=<value>] -kb <keyboard_name> -km <keymap_name>
```

**Usage in Keyboard Directory**:  

Must be in keyboard directory with a default keymap, or in keymap directory for keyboard, or supply one with `--keymap <keymap_name>`
```
qmk compile
```

**Usage for building all keyboards that support a specific keymap**:

```
qmk compile -kb all -km <keymap_name>
```

**Example**:
```
$ qmk config compile.keymap=default
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/planck/rev6
$ qmk compile
Ψ Compiling keymap with make planck/rev6:default
...
```
or with optional keymap argument

```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev4 
$ qmk compile -km 66_iso
Ψ Compiling keymap with make clueboard/66/rev4:66_iso
...
```
or in keymap directory

```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/gh60/satan/keymaps/colemak
$ qmk compile
Ψ Compiling keymap with make make gh60/satan:colemak
...
```

**Usage in Layout Directory**:  

Must be under `qmk_firmware/layouts/`, and in a keymap folder.
```
qmk compile -kb <keyboard_name>
```

**Example**:
```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/layouts/community/60_ansi/mechmerlin-ansi
$ qmk compile -kb dz60
Ψ Compiling keymap with make dz60:mechmerlin-ansi
...
```

## `qmk flash`

This command is similar to `qmk compile`, but can also target a bootloader. The bootloader is optional, and is set to `:flash` by default. To specify a different bootloader, use `-bl <bootloader>`. Visit the [Flashing Firmware](flashing.md) guide for more details of the available bootloaders.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage for Configurator Exports**:

```
qmk flash [-bl <bootloader>] [-c] [-e <var>=<value>] <configuratorExport.json>
```

**Usage for Keymaps**:

```
qmk flash -kb <keyboard_name> -km <keymap_name> [-bl <bootloader>] [-c] [-e <var>=<value>]
```

**Listing the Bootloaders**

```
qmk flash -b
```

## `qmk config`

This command lets you configure the behavior of QMK. For the full `qmk config` documentation see [CLI Configuration](cli_configuration.md).

**Usage**:

```
qmk config [-ro] [config_token1] [config_token2] [...] [config_tokenN]
```

## `qmk doctor`

This command examines your environment and alerts you to potential build or flash problems. It can fix many of them if you want it to.

**Usage**:

```
qmk doctor [-y] [-n]
```

**Examples**:

Check your environment for problems and prompt to fix them:

    qmk doctor

Check your environment and automatically fix any problems found:

    qmk doctor -y

Check your environment and report problems only:

    qmk doctor -n

## `qmk format-json`

Formats a JSON file in a (mostly) human-friendly way. Will usually correctly detect the format of the JSON (info.json or keymap.json) but you can override this with `--format` if neccesary.

**Usage**:

```
qmk format-json [-f FORMAT] <json_file>
```

## `qmk info`

Displays information about keyboards and keymaps in QMK. You can use this to get information about a keyboard, show the layouts, display the underlying key matrix, or to pretty-print JSON keymaps.

**Usage**:

```
qmk info [-f FORMAT] [-m] [-l] [-km KEYMAP] [-kb KEYBOARD]
```

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Examples**:

Show basic information for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb planck/rev5

Show the matrix for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb ergodox_ez -m

Show a JSON keymap for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb clueboard/california -km default

## `qmk json2c`

Creates a keymap.c from a QMK Configurator export.

**Usage**:

```
qmk json2c [-o OUTPUT] filename
```

## `qmk c2json`

Creates a keymap.json from a keymap.c.  
**Note:** Parsing C source files is not easy, therefore this subcommand may not work with your keymap. In some cases not using the C pre-processor helps.

**Usage**:

```
qmk c2json -km KEYMAP -kb KEYBOARD [-q] [--no-cpp] [-o OUTPUT] filename
```

## `qmk lint`

Checks over a keyboard and/or keymap and highlights common errors, problems, and anti-patterns.

**Usage**:

```
qmk lint [-km KEYMAP] [-kb KEYBOARD] [--strict]
```

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Examples**:

Do a basic lint check:

    qmk lint -kb rominronin/katana60/rev2

## `qmk list-keyboards`

This command lists all the keyboards currently defined in `qmk_firmware`

**Usage**:

```
qmk list-keyboards
```

## `qmk list-keymaps`

This command lists all the keymaps for a specified keyboard (and revision).

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD if you are in a keyboard directory.

**Usage**:

```
qmk list-keymaps -kb planck/ez
```

## `qmk new-keymap`

This command creates a new keymap based on a keyboard's existing default keymap.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage**:

```
qmk new-keymap [-kb KEYBOARD] [-km KEYMAP]
```

## `qmk clean`

This command cleans up the `.build` folder. If `--all` is passed, any .hex or .bin files present in the `qmk_firmware` directory will also be deleted.

**Usage**:

```
qmk clean [-a]
```

---

# Developer Commands

## `qmk cformat`

This command formats C code using clang-format. 

Run it with no arguments to format all core code that has been changed. Default checks `origin/master` with `git diff`, branch can be changed using `-b <branch_name>`

Run it with `-a` to format all core code, or pass filenames on the command line to run it on specific files.

**Usage for specified files**:

```
qmk cformat [file1] [file2] [...] [fileN]
```

**Usage for all core files**:

```
qmk cformat -a
```

**Usage for only changed files against origin/master**:

```
qmk cformat
```

**Usage for only changed files against branch_name**:

```
qmk cformat -b branch_name
```

## `qmk docs`

This command starts a local HTTP server which you can use for browsing or improving the docs. Default port is 8936.

**Usage**:

```
qmk docs [-p PORT]
```

## `qmk generate-docs`

This command allows you to generate QMK documentation locally. It can be uses for general browsing or improving the docs. External tools such as [serve](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve) can be used to browse the generated files.

**Usage**:

```
qmk generate-docs
```

## `qmk generate-rgb-breathe-table`

This command generates a lookup table (LUT) header file for the [RGB Lighting](feature_rgblight.md) feature's breathing animation. Place this file in your keyboard or keymap directory as `rgblight_breathe_table.h` to override the default LUT in `quantum/`.

**Usage**:

```
qmk generate-rgb-breathe-table [-q] [-o OUTPUT] [-m MAX] [-c CENTER]
```

## `qmk kle2json`

This command allows you to convert from raw KLE data to QMK Configurator JSON. It accepts either an absolute file path, or a file name in the current directory. By default it will not overwrite `info.json` if it is already present. Use the `-f` or `--force` flag to overwrite.

**Usage**:

```
qmk kle2json [-f] <filename>
```

**Examples**:

```
$ qmk kle2json kle.txt 
☒ File info.json already exists, use -f or --force to overwrite.
```

```
$ qmk kle2json -f kle.txt -f
Ψ Wrote out to info.json
```

## `qmk pyformat`

This command formats python code in `qmk_firmware`.

**Usage**:

```
qmk pyformat
```

## `qmk pytest`

This command runs the python test suite. If you make changes to python code you should ensure this runs successfully.

**Usage**:

```
qmk pytest
```

Commit message:

Shim cli to new keyboard script (#12780)
* Shim cli to new keyboard script

* Shim cli to new keyboard script

* Add docs

docs/cli_commands.md, after:

# QMK CLI Commands

# User Commands

## `qmk compile`

This command allows you to compile firmware from any directory. You can compile JSON exports from <https://config.qmk.fm>, compile keymaps in the repo, or compile the keyboard in the current working directory.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage for Configurator Exports**:

```
qmk compile [-c] <configuratorExport.json>
```

**Usage for Keymaps**:

```
qmk compile [-c] [-e <var>=<value>] -kb <keyboard_name> -km <keymap_name>
```

**Usage in Keyboard Directory**:  

Must be in keyboard directory with a default keymap, or in keymap directory for keyboard, or supply one with `--keymap <keymap_name>`
```
qmk compile
```

**Usage for building all keyboards that support a specific keymap**:

```
qmk compile -kb all -km <keymap_name>
```

**Example**:
```
$ qmk config compile.keymap=default
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/planck/rev6
$ qmk compile
Ψ Compiling keymap with make planck/rev6:default
...
```
or with optional keymap argument

```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev4 
$ qmk compile -km 66_iso
Ψ Compiling keymap with make clueboard/66/rev4:66_iso
...
```
or in keymap directory

```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/keyboards/gh60/satan/keymaps/colemak
$ qmk compile
Ψ Compiling keymap with make make gh60/satan:colemak
...
```

**Usage in Layout Directory**:  

Must be under `qmk_firmware/layouts/`, and in a keymap folder.
```
qmk compile -kb <keyboard_name>
```

**Example**:
```
$ cd ~/qmk_firmware/layouts/community/60_ansi/mechmerlin-ansi
$ qmk compile -kb dz60
Ψ Compiling keymap with make dz60:mechmerlin-ansi
...
```

## `qmk flash`

This command is similar to `qmk compile`, but can also target a bootloader. The bootloader is optional, and is set to `:flash` by default. To specify a different bootloader, use `-bl <bootloader>`. Visit the [Flashing Firmware](flashing.md) guide for more details of the available bootloaders.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage for Configurator Exports**:

```
qmk flash [-bl <bootloader>] [-c] [-e <var>=<value>] <configuratorExport.json>
```

**Usage for Keymaps**:

```
qmk flash -kb <keyboard_name> -km <keymap_name> [-bl <bootloader>] [-c] [-e <var>=<value>]
```

**Listing the Bootloaders**

```
qmk flash -b
```

## `qmk config`

This command lets you configure the behavior of QMK. For the full `qmk config` documentation see [CLI Configuration](cli_configuration.md).

**Usage**:

```
qmk config [-ro] [config_token1] [config_token2] [...] [config_tokenN]
```

## `qmk doctor`

This command examines your environment and alerts you to potential build or flash problems. It can fix many of them if you want it to.

**Usage**:

```
qmk doctor [-y] [-n]
```

**Examples**:

Check your environment for problems and prompt to fix them:

    qmk doctor

Check your environment and automatically fix any problems found:

    qmk doctor -y

Check your environment and report problems only:

    qmk doctor -n

## `qmk format-json`

Formats a JSON file in a (mostly) human-friendly way. Will usually correctly detect the format of the JSON (info.json or keymap.json) but you can override this with `--format` if neccesary.

**Usage**:

```
qmk format-json [-f FORMAT] <json_file>
```

## `qmk info`

Displays information about keyboards and keymaps in QMK. You can use this to get information about a keyboard, show the layouts, display the underlying key matrix, or to pretty-print JSON keymaps.

**Usage**:

```
qmk info [-f FORMAT] [-m] [-l] [-km KEYMAP] [-kb KEYBOARD]
```

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Examples**:

Show basic information for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb planck/rev5

Show the matrix for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb ergodox_ez -m

Show a JSON keymap for a keyboard:

    qmk info -kb clueboard/california -km default

## `qmk json2c`

Creates a keymap.c from a QMK Configurator export.

**Usage**:

```
qmk json2c [-o OUTPUT] filename
```

## `qmk c2json`

Creates a keymap.json from a keymap.c.  
**Note:** Parsing C source files is not easy, therefore this subcommand may not work with your keymap. In some cases not using the C pre-processor helps.

**Usage**:

```
qmk c2json -km KEYMAP -kb KEYBOARD [-q] [--no-cpp] [-o OUTPUT] filename
```

## `qmk lint`

Checks over a keyboard and/or keymap and highlights common errors, problems, and anti-patterns.

**Usage**:

```
qmk lint [-km KEYMAP] [-kb KEYBOARD] [--strict]
```

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Examples**:

Do a basic lint check:

    qmk lint -kb rominronin/katana60/rev2

## `qmk list-keyboards`

This command lists all the keyboards currently defined in `qmk_firmware`

**Usage**:

```
qmk list-keyboards
```

## `qmk list-keymaps`

This command lists all the keymaps for a specified keyboard (and revision).

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD if you are in a keyboard directory.

**Usage**:

```
qmk list-keymaps -kb planck/ez
```

## `qmk new-keyboard`

This command creates a new keyboard based on available templates.

This command will prompt for input to guide you though the generation process.

**Usage**:

```
qmk new-keyboard
```

## `qmk new-keymap`

This command creates a new keymap based on a keyboard's existing default keymap.

This command is directory aware. It will automatically fill in KEYBOARD and/or KEYMAP if you are in a keyboard or keymap directory.

**Usage**:

```
qmk new-keymap [-kb KEYBOARD] [-km KEYMAP]
```

## `qmk clean`

This command cleans up the `.build` folder. If `--all` is passed, any .hex or .bin files present in the `qmk_firmware` directory will also be deleted.

**Usage**:

```
qmk clean [-a]
```

---

# Developer Commands

## `qmk cformat`

This command formats C code using clang-format. 

Run it with no arguments to format all core code that has been changed. Default checks `origin/master` with `git diff`, branch can be changed using `-b <branch_name>`

Run it with `-a` to format all core code, or pass filenames on the command line to run it on specific files.

**Usage for specified files**:

```
qmk cformat [file1] [file2] [...] [fileN]
```

**Usage for all core files**:

```
qmk cformat -a
```

**Usage for only changed files against origin/master**:

```
qmk cformat
```

**Usage for only changed files against branch_name**:

```
qmk cformat -b branch_name
```

## `qmk docs`

This command starts a local HTTP server which you can use for browsing or improving the docs. Default port is 8936.

**Usage**:

```
qmk docs [-p PORT]
```

## `qmk generate-docs`

This command allows you to generate QMK documentation locally. It can be uses for general browsing or improving the docs. External tools such as [serve](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serve) can be used to browse the generated files.

**Usage**:

```
qmk generate-docs
```

## `qmk generate-rgb-breathe-table`

This command generates a lookup table (LUT) header file for the [RGB Lighting](feature_rgblight.md) feature's breathing animation. Place this file in your keyboard or keymap directory as `rgblight_breathe_table.h` to override the default LUT in `quantum/`.

**Usage**:

```
qmk generate-rgb-breathe-table [-q] [-o OUTPUT] [-m MAX] [-c CENTER]
```

## `qmk kle2json`

This command allows you to convert from raw KLE data to QMK Configurator JSON. It accepts either an absolute file path, or a file name in the current directory. By default it will not overwrite `info.json` if it is already present. Use the `-f` or `--force` flag to overwrite.

**Usage**:

```
qmk kle2json [-f] <filename>
```

**Examples**:

```
$ qmk kle2json kle.txt 
☒ File info.json already exists, use -f or --force to overwrite.
```

```
$ qmk kle2json -f kle.txt -f
Ψ Wrote out to info.json
```

## `qmk pyformat`

This command formats python code in `qmk_firmware`.

**Usage**:

```
qmk pyformat
```

## `qmk pytest`

This command runs the python test suite. If you make changes to python code you should ensure this runs successfully.

**Usage**:

```
qmk pytest
```
